So far I've showed you how to add and subtract polynomials.
I've showed you how to multiply polynomials and now in this video, I'm going to show you how to divide
polynomials in python.
Now this is a really great use case.
This is a really great example of why using computers to do math is great.
And that's because dividing polynomials by hand is a total nightmare.
It's really hard.
It's really tedious.
It takes a really long time.
So if you have to divide this polynomial by this polynomial you end up needing to write out some really
long long division.
So a long long division problem, but fortunately we are going to solve this in Python so we are going
to use python as a fancy calculator to solve a problem like this all for us.
Okay.
And so the way that works is by defining the polynomial. So let's start with... How about four times x to
the fifth power minus X and then polynomial two and we'll make this be the denominator.
So P1 is gonna be the numerator and P2 will be the denominator.
Let's make this two times X cubed minus X as well.
So now let's see.
I'm going to display the fractions.
So display math.
So let's see how shall we display this as a fraction.
So you already know how to use the slash slash frac latex code.
So there we need a pair of curly brackets for the numerator and a pair of curly brackets for the denominator.
So put percent s in here.
Percent s in here and equals and then let's have another percent s here.
And essentially what I'm going to do is first use latex to explicitly write out the P1 is in the numerator
P2 is in the denominator and then here I'm gonna say P1 divided by P2.
So let's see.
So the first replacement is going to be sym dot latex P1.
The second replacement will be sym dot latex P2 and then a third replacement will the sym dot latex
P1 divided by P2.
So let's see how this looks.
Huh.
So that's pretty interesting.
So when I wrote explicitly in a fraction versus when I just divided these two polynomials as symbolic
expressions, and then made a latex version out of that, we got exactly the same result.
So now it's interesting to try a few different ways, so let's copy and paste this code.
And now what I'm going to do is expand this division here.
So let's write some dot expand and let's see how that looks... huh, that's interesting.
So this looks in fact a little bit different.
And what you can see is that sympy broke up the numerator to have individual terms.
So this is four times x to the fifth power over this denominator minus X divided by this denominator.
Now these two denominators are the same.
So of course you can combine these two terms into one.
However, we asked sympy to expand the terms and here is what simply did.
Okay.
And now I want to run another test, except instead of expanding I want to simplify.
So I'm going to replace expand with simplify
OK so this is pretty interesting.
Now in this case Python actually did the division of this polynomial into this polynomial and their
results happened to be two x squared plus one.
So that means that two X cubed minus X goes into four X to the fifth power minus X.
Exactly two x squared times one plus one times.
Okay.
So that's basically all there is to know about division of polynomials in sympy.
Now I'd like to tell you about the exercise for this video.
So what you want to do is implement this polynomial division.
So this polynomial divided by this polynomial. Now notice that this polynomial actually has two variables.
There's X and there's a bunch of X terms in the numerator and in the denominator.
And then there's this term minus Y, which is present only in the numerator.
So the question is what is a value of y that will give you a result that has no fraction.
So that is to say, if you set y to be equal to 5 for example and then you implement this division the
result is going to be another fraction.
Now it turns out that there is at least one number between 5 and 15 might be one number might be two
or maybe three numbers.
But there is at least one value of y -- one integer value of y -- between 5 and 15 such that when you set
y to be that number or those numbers then this result, this division, gives you another polynomial. But
it's a polynomial that is not a fraction.
And your job is to find that.
So what you want to do is implement this in a for loop that loops over different values of Y from five
to 15 in integers and determine whether the result of this fraction of this division is a fraction or
not.
And the hint is that you want to use, or you can I recommend using, a function in the sympy module called
dot fraction.
Now I haven't yet told you how to use this function and that was on purpose.
I would like you to figure out on your own; how to use this sympy fraction function and how to use the
information from the,
so the output of this fraction function, in order to help you solve this problem.
All right.
So good luck.
Pause the video now and work through this on your own in Python.
And then when you're ready or if you get stuck then come back to the video.
Now I will switch to Python so I'm going to start here by giving you a little bit of a primer on using
the fraction function.
So let's start by creating some fraction.
I'll call this variable F and that's going to be let's say three divided by four.
Now I've already showed you in a previous video that Python is actually going to implement this division
and represent this not as three divided by four but instead as point seventy five.
So what we can do is say sympy dot sympify.
Now we are representing the numerator not as the number three but as the symbolic number three.
And now F is the symbolic object or the this mathematical expression three divided by four.
OK.
So let's see what happens when I get f info, I'll call this variable finfo equals sym dot fraction
F.
So let's start by just printing out f info and here we get in parentheses three comma four.
Let's see what is the type of this variable.
So this is called a tuple.
It's a python variable class called a tuple and essentially it's just holding this information.
So tuple sounds like a funny word but it's just a way of storing this information.
So three and then 4.
Now you probably already guessed that this is the numerator and this is the denominator.
So to access just the numerator we can access the first element of this tuple and we do that with a
square bracket after the variable and then 0.
And that gives 3.
And of course the second element we access with the number one of the index 1 and that is 4.
OK.
So with that in mind.
Now I'm going to show you what happens when we just have the symbolic number three.
Now f infos so the output of simple out fraction is three comma one.
And that's because three is the same thing as three divided by one.
And that is the key insight into solving the problem.
So if you are working through the exercise and you couldn't quite figure it out you couldn't quite get
to a solution, then
I hope that now you have enough information to work through a solution.
So feel free to pause the video again and continue working.
OK.
So I'm going to start by creating some new variables, let's say Pnum so numerator for the polynomial
in the numerator.
That was X to the sixth power plus two times X to the fourth power plus six times x minus y.
And I just now realized that I haven't yet created a symbolic variable Y.
I'll get to that in a minute.
So the polynomial in the denominator was X cubed plus three.
So let's see.
I will also recreate X just to be on the safe side.
So X comma Y equals sym
dot symbols X comma Y.
Okay, so ran this l don't get any errors already.
Good sign.
Now what I want to do is essentially loop through different values of Y in the range of 5 to 15.
So for I maybe I call this Y in range 5.
And now we want the numbers to go up to 15.
So therefore the top index here has to be 16.
So my strategy for solving this problem is I'm going to divide the numerator by the denominator while
substituting in for different values of Y.
And then I'm going to use this fraction function and basically test whether the fraction or the denominator
of the fraction is equal to 1.
So now I'm going to create a new variable for the numerator.
Let's call this tempnum.
So temporary num
And often when people write the word temp in their variable names it's because they're only using a
variable for one or maybe two lines.
And otherwise they don't really care about it.
So let's say that is p num dot subs, and here I want to substitute y for Y so wherever y appears in
this polynomial we're going to replace that with Y i.
Which of course is the different numbers in this range here.
Okay.
And then actually before moving too much further I want to print this out just to make sure that this
is looking good.
So let's say display math and then I want to write out the fraction and then say what it is equal to
if it reduces.
So percent S equals percent s and then I'm going to substitute the first one with sym dot latex.
Now this is not P num with a capital N like this here; instead I'm gonna substitute temp num here.
So tempnum for numerator divided by P denominator.
Now this polynomial of course never changes it's always stays the same.
So that was the first substitution and then the second substitution is essentially the same except that
we want to simplify like what we did here. So I will say assume that latex and then sympy simplify and
then the same things that tempnum divided by P denominator.
All right.
So let's run this code and see if we get some results.
So this is looking pretty good.
And it's also pretty interesting to see that all of these cases have a, so in a simplified case we have
still a denominator of X cubed plus three, except for this one here.
So that's where y equals nine.
So we found our result but I would like to add a little bit more code to this for loop so that this
is identified automatically and print it out in text in words at the very bottom.
Okay.
So therefore what I'm going to do is identify the fraction of this division, so I'm going to write it
like this
so this fraction the numerator divided by the denominator dot fraction and then what we care about is
not the first element in this tuple but the second.
So that's going to be number one and we want to know if this is equal to 1 like this.
So here remember we didn't have a...
So this wasn't actually a real fraction.
So the denominator is just one.
And so that's the case here implicitly.
You could divide this expression by 1.
And it's exactly the same expression.
So let's say if we treat this as a fraction and in fact this needs to be sym dot simplify just like
we had over here.
So simplify this fraction and then extract the two parts of the fraction out of it -- the numerator and
denominator. If the denominator is equal to 1 then that means we have gotten the right answer equals
Y.
Okay.
And then when this whole for loop is finished, I want to print out that the correct answer --
well I should say the answer that satisfies our goal, is Y equals percent G and then percent right answer.
Okay.
So I hope I haven't made any coding errors up and it looks like I have all right.
So dot fraction is not a method here we need it as its own function.
It's a sympy function, so this has to say sym dot fraction.
My apologies for that mistake.
So let's see.
So now we take the numerator with the Y replaced, divided by the denominator and then we simplify that
and then we take that as an input into fraction and then we want the second item in that the output
of that function.
Okay.
So here we get the same result that we saw earlier.
And this says the answer that satisfies our goal is Y equals nine, which we can confirm here visually.
So if there's anything that you learned in this video then I hope it's that that exercise would have
been a total nightmare to do by hand.
So be thankful be grateful that we have computers and numerical software programs like Python to do
all of the hard algebra for us and we can focus more on the concepts, and the meaning of the math and
that is kind of generally the point of this course: if you use python if you learn how to use python
as a tool for helping you with mathematics, then that kind of frees up your your mind; it frees up your
mental workspace to focus on important concepts and ideas in mathematics and principles as opposed to
getting bogged down in the little arithmetic details. Anyway,
there is still more information about working with polynomials in Python so I hope you will continue
watching to the next video.